docs: propagate Python to all parts of the Platform documentation (#711)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/integrations/webhooks/ad_hoc_webhooks.md

---
title: Ad-hoc webhooks
description: Learn how to set one-off webhooks for Actor runs started via the Apify API or from the Actor's code. Trigger the event once the run reaches a desired state.
sidebar_position: 3
slug: /integrations/webhooks/ad-hoc-webhooks
---

# Ad-hoc webhooks

**Learn how to set one-off webhooks for Actor runs started via the Apify API or from the Actor's code. Trigger the event once the run reaches a desired state.**

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

---

> An ad-hoc webhook is a one-time webhook created for a certain Actor run when starting the run using the [Apify API](/api/v2). It's triggered at most once when the given run transitions into the desired state. Ad-hoc webhooks can be defined using a URL parameter `webhooks` added to the API endpoint that starts an Actor or Actor task:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An ad-hoc webhook is a one-time webhook created for a certain Actor run when starting the run using the [Apify API](/api/v2). It's triggered no more than once when the given run transitions into the desired state. Ad-hoc webhooks can be defined using a URL parameter `webhooks` added to the API endpoint that starts an Actor or Actor task:
```

await Actor.exit();
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Python" label="Python">

```python
from apify import Actor

async def main():
    async with Actor:
        other_dataset = await Actor.add_webhook(
            event_types=['ACTOR.RUN.FAILED'],
            request_url='https://example.com/run-failed',
        )
        # ...
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

To learn more, see the [JavaScript SDK documentation](/sdk/js/api/apify/class/Actor#addWebhook) or the [Python SDK documentation](/sdk/python/api/apify/class/Actor#add_webhook).

> To ensure that duplicate ad-hoc webhooks won't get created in a case of Actor restart you can use the idempotency key parameter. The idempotency key must be unique across all the webhooks of a user so that only one webhook gets created for a given value. You can use, for example, the Actor run ID as idempotency key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that duplicate ad-hoc webhooks won't get created in the case of Actor restart, you can use the idempotency key parameter. The idempotency key must be unique across all the webhooks of a user so that only one webhook gets created for a given value. You can use, for example, the Actor run ID as an idempotency key:
```
